Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said Tuesday that he has never personally spoken with Rudy GiulianiRudy GiulianiPompeo adviser resigning: report 'Off-script' Trump rails against impeachment, Democrats at feisty rally Trump's former Ukraine envoy was dismissed after she pushed Giuliani to go through official channels: report MORE, President Trump's personal attorney who has pushed for Ukraine to investigate former Vice President Joe BidenJoe BidenDemocratic 2020 hopefuls tout LGBTQ plans at town hall Trump bashes Biden at Minnesota rally, asks 'Where's Hunter? 'Off-script' Trump rails against impeachment, Democrats at feisty rally MORE.
“I have never met Rudy Giuliani. Never. And never had any phone calls with him,” Zelensky told reporters in Kiev while speaking in English, Bloomberg reports.
Zelensky also reiterated that he was not under pressure from Trump to investigate Biden following a call between the two leaders in late July, according to Bloomberg.
A partial memo of the July 25 discussion released by the White House last week shows Trump asking Zelensky to investigate Biden, a top political rival who is a leading candidate in the Democratic presidential race.
ADVERTISEMENT <!--//--><![CDATA[// ><!-- googletag.cmd.push(function() {googletag.display("dfp-ad-mosad_1");}); //--><!]]>
“I want to tell you that I never feel any pressure and there are very many people in the west and in Ukraine who would like to influence me,” Zelensky said Tuesday, according to Bloomberg. “But I am a president of independent Ukraine and I think that, and I hope my steps demonstrate this, that it is impossible to influence me.”
A declassified whistleblower complaint released last week alleges that Trump pressured Zelensky to “meet or speak with” Giuliani and Attorney General William BarrWilliam Pelham BarrOvernight Defense: Trump tries to defend stance on Kurds | Biden says Trump sold out allies | McMaster criticizes Trump's Syria decision | Latest on arrest of Giuliani associates Barr met privately with Murdoch amid impeachment scrutiny: report Making sense of the key players in the Trump-Ukraine controversy MORE. The whistleblower complaint cited details from Trump's call with Zelensky in July.
House Democrats have seized on Trump's call and his attorney's push for Ukraine to investigate Biden, saying the move amounts to soliciting foreign help to interfere in the 2020 election and arguing that it bolsters their case for impeachment.
The House launched a formal impeachment inquiry into Trump last week amid the whistleblower’s allegations against Trump and reports that White House officials pushed for a transcript of the call to be put on a highly classified server.
House Democrats subpoenaed Giuliani on Monday related to the administration’s interactions with Ukraine.
Giuliani wouldn’t say if he would comply with the subpoena.
The subpoena, which was signed by Oversight Committee Chairman Elijah CummingsElijah Eugene CummingsOversight panel to subpoena Trump officials next week over deportation deferrals House panel preparing to subpoena heads of two immigration agencies Overnight Energy: Dems subpoena Perry in impeachment inquiry | EPA to overhaul rules on lead contamination tests | Commerce staff wrote statement rebuking weather service for contradicting Trump MORE (D-Md.) and Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Eliot EngelEliot Lance EngelOvernight Energy: Dems subpoena Perry in impeachment inquiry | EPA to overhaul rules on lead contamination tests | Commerce staff wrote statement rebuking weather service for contradicting Trump House Democrats subpoena Rick Perry in impeachment inquiry Democrats request testimony from Trump's former Russia adviser MORE (D-N.Y.), demanded Giuliani respond by Oct. 15.
The chairmen warned that failure or refusal to comply with the subpoena “shall constitute evidence of obstruction of the House's impeachment inquiry.”